---
title: "Post-Conflict Debriefing on a Token Issue"
categories:
  - debriefing
---

If you have been following Ellaism along recently, you may have heard
of the conflict with EGEM team related to a token planned to deploy on
the Ellaism network. In this post, we aim to provide a post-conflict
debriefing on what we can learn about it, and what we can do better if
similar incidents happen next time. We won't provide the transcript of
how the incident was actually carried out, due to its complexity, and
different opinions on different parties involved. If you are
interested in that, please visit the old Discord server, which
contains the complete logs in `#general` chat.

## Tokens and Principles

The conflict started when EGEM team wants to deploy a "token" that
contains a premine, and Ellaismer pointed out that we cannot use
**official channels** to promote this token, because it is against our
no-premine principles.

Ellaism is an open platform. No single entity controls the
platform. Technically nothing is "official". And here our use of
official means anything that might make user think is associated
directly with the core of the coin. This may include recognized
developers, Twitter handles, Discord servers, websites, and others.

We don't have enough information on this "token" EGEM planned to
launch. From various sources, it can either be an ERC20/ERC223 token,
or a "sidechain". We discuss various issues related to them
separately.

### Tokens and ICOs

In all Ethereum communities, ICOs and tokens always bring mixed
feelings. On one hand, they bring investors. On the other hand, some
ICOs and tokens can be scam.

As a community that supports and works on a certain blockchain,
utilization of the blockchain is always encouraged. Indeed, ICOs and
tokens on Ellaism bring utilization, thus we *support* them. This
means that developers will always provide technical support. And as an
open platform, we also don't try to and cannot restrict how people use
it.

However, whether the community actually *encourage* a certain ICO or
token would be a completely different question. Based on whether the
ICO or token is useful or is just scam, the community might encourage
or discourage launch of an ICO or token, and as always, this would be
completely up to the community's decision.

Ellaism is a coin that holds strong on its principles. We have several
items, which if removed, would make Ellaism no longer considered the
original coin. One of them is no premine. As a result, we want to make
sure that Ellaism is never associated with premine/airdrop. To make it
the case, even if we consider a certain token or ICO to be good, we
would still not use any official channels to promote it.

Our community also value several soft spirits. Those spirits are
considered soft because it's only implicitly expressed. For example,
we value finished projects much more than projects with only an idea
and no code. However, unlike principles, whether we follow a certain
spirits at a certain time would be entirely up to everyone in the
community.

In the future, the Core team would continue to stand strong on
Ellaism's principles, even if that means it would affect interests of
some other people.

### Sidechains

It is mentioned in some other sources that this "token" EGEM planned
to launch might actually be a "sidechain", which uses the Blake2s
Proof of Work algorithm and to design it so that it can be dual-mined
with Ellaism. This is then combined with an "exchange" to allow tokens
to be swapped.

If this is the case, then Core team's concern is that, while EGEM
might have designed this with good intention, in practice, sidechains
that work like this usually creates direct competition with the parent
chain. In addition, because sidechain requires a huge amount of extra
efforts to design, the author usually ended up just creating another
totally separate chain, with no relationship with the originally
planned parent chain. Using a normal exchange to allow swapping also
raises centralization concerns.

During the conflicts with EGEM team, Ellaismer used the Callisto
example, but failed to express clearly about the above concerns. This
is something that Core team should have done better.

## Community Management

The conflict also raises concerns about several Ellaism's community
management efforts. Some of them are still open questions, and we hope
that as a community we can work together to solve them.

### Leaving the Old Discord Server

During the conflict, Ellaismer left the old Discord server, which caused
the conflict to get even more heated. This behavior should be avoided,
and leaving should at least not be immediate and until all other negotiations
have failed. 

### Financial Interests

One thing discussed in the conflict is the MINING token. This is a
no-premine no-airdrop token, but is only applied on Dev Pool. This
additional feature on Dev Pool caused some miners to switch from other
mining pools. We still think this is totally reasonable here. Many
mining pools contains different features, and miners might switch
around based on those features.

Our genesis developer Ellaismer expressed that he will continue to
work for free. In the mean time, during the past few dev meetings, we
started discussions on tipping developers. However, the funding we
have is relatively small. This may be what caused our developers to be
unsatisfied, but expressed their un-satisfaction via MINING token.

It still remains an open issue of how we should reward developers for
working on Ellaism. Given the past incidents, it might be better if we
attract people who work part-time as a hobby, rather than people who
work full-time and expect to be paid. However, we are not sure on this
as well, and we certainly need more community discussions.

### The Roundtable

In the old Discord server, we have a channel called `#roundtable`, to
which only community managers, developers and enthusiasts have
access. The roundtable is where the conflict started to backfire. In
the mean time, many community members expressed concerns about the
`#roundtable` setup. If we had it public, more people might be able to
provide input in the beginning, and we might be able to avoid the
conflict.

To address this, we are trying out various things in the new Discord
server.

* We don't display developers or community managers separately in the
  member list any more. This makes everyone in the chatroom feels more
  equal, so that people want those roles for its functionality, rather
  than feeling privileged.
* We don't have any private chatrooms any more.

And we're looking for more inputs on how we can better handle this.
